Popp: What's going
on in there...
What are they doing?!
What does it look like, Popp?
The very air is burning
with their ferocity.
Are you saying that...
this heat is a product of how
intensely they're fighting?
That seems to be the case.
It's highly concentrated aura.
I don't think there's
any stopping them now.
I tried to talk
them out of it,
but we barely escaped
without getting burned.
[agreeing chirp]
I still don't understand.
Look at this. I mean,
how does this sort of
thing even happen?
Vearn: The legend...
the Battle of True Dragons...
Piroro: What's that,
Your Majesty?
You don't recall?
The Underworld's
most infamous battle,
and now it's being
recreated right before us.
Killvearn: Enlighten
us, great Dark King.
Many eons ago...
The two most powerful
Dragons inhabiting
the Underworld challenged
each other to a duel.
They sought to determine
which one of them was
the stronger being.
[snarling]
Velzar, the Abyss Dragon...
...or Vorikus,
the Lightning Dragon.
[roaring]
Evenly matched as they were,
their clash was
more destructive
than anything the realm
had ever witnessed.
Their Auras, fiery breath,
and Magic Power collided,
creating a field of energy that
super-heated the battleground-
laying waste to all that
stood in their path.
The tempest had such
incredible force
that it brought
ruin to any creature
who made the error of
getting too close.
But still the battle raged on,
until all that
remained was ash.
When this ultimate duel
of power came to an end,
and the ashes settled...
Vorikus was no more, and
Velzar claimed his victory.
This was how he
earned his title
as the Dragon King
of the Abyss.
Ever since, their
quarrel has been known as
the Battle of True Dragons.
It is revered throughout
the Underworld
as the most extraordinary
duel in history.
[delighted chuckle]
So pay close attention
now, Killvearn...
This isn't an event that
one witnesses every day.
Vearn: These two are locked in
a similar field of destruction.
For such an event
to take place,
both sides must be extremely
powerful, and their tactics;
evenly matched.
To think that Lord
Hadlar and the Hero
would put on such
an impressive show...
What a welcome surprise.
They're both giving this fight
all the power
they can summon...
That energy must
be spilling over
and creating this
heat surrounding them.
Popp: How can you
be so calm right now?
If Dai's in trouble,
don't you think we should be,
y'know, helping him?
What?
We don't have a say.
As you can see, nothing
can get through that field.
It's as if...
their collective will is
preventing anyone
from interrupting them.
At least, that's my guess.
But, then... why isn't
Dai using his sword?
Hadlar isn't using his either.
Maybe they can't use
them inside the field.
Since it appeared,
they've been fighting
hand-to-hand.
Or perhaps they both
realize that once they draw
their weapons...
there won't be
any turning back.
[roaring]
[fighting grunts]
No, Dai!
I'm not standing by.
I can blow away all this heat
with one blast of my Medroa.
Hadlar won't know
what hit him-
What are you doing?
You can't, Popp.
This duel belongs to them.
Enough! Save the platitudes.
Look at them!
Just standing there
is draining their stamina-
we both know it.
Dai might be a Dragon Knight,
but Hadlar's easily
twice his size.
He's a monster.
If they're fighting to
tire each other out,
it's obvious who's
going to win.
And I don't care
if it's unfair or not.
He needs help, I'm helping.
Leona: Hold on, Popp.
Oh, not you too, Princess.
Dai wants this duel.
He said so himself.
We shouldn't interfere.
He knows what he's doing.
No, he's just being naive.
Hadlar's egging him on,
and he's taking the bait.
But isn't the fact...
That he's even doing it -
what makes Dai, our Dai?
"O-Our Dai"?
You see, I...
I've been thinking
about it a lot...
About what the power of
Dai's soul could be.
At first, I thought that
it must've been Courage,
but that wound up being
the gift of your soul.
Y-Yeah...
Right.
If that's the case,
what is his power?
Actually, you
just mentioned it.
If I'm right, then Dai's
true power is his naivety.
Huh? How is that a power?
Kindness and innocence
are virtues;
they only come
from a pure heart.
Yes... that has to be it.
[agreeing chirp]
Leona: Dai was raised among
monsters on Dermline Island,
so he grew up without
learning to discriminate.
He's never seen differences
as a bad thing...
It's just in his nature
to treat everyone equally;
no matter the cost.
That's his greatest
strength, isn't it?
I mean, it's the reason
we became friends, after all.
And... that's why Hyunckel
and Crocodine joined us.
Leona: The only reason
we're all here right now
is thanks to the
power of Dai's soul-
because of his pure heart.
So if Dai could sense...
anything within Hadlar...
that made him accept
this duel, whatever it was...
it's our duty to respect that.
We'll have to trust him.
I might be wrong...
but something
tells me I'm not.
You had enough?
Dai [thought]: There's no
way I'll beat him like this.
Fine, then.
I'll... I'll have to use my
strongest attack against him.
Dai!
His sword!
Hadlar: [chuckling]
Ah, yes. There's the look.
It's like clockwork.
Whenever you're about to
do something astonishing,
that look comes
over your face.
To be honest, it's become my
favorite expression of yours.
Hyunckel: This is it. The
final clash is about to begin.
This next attack
decides who wins.
Oh, you're a Seer now, too.
How could you
possibly know that?
The field...
If I'm right,
then I believe...
When this duel ends,
the energy surrounding
the battlefield
will side with the victor.
Killvearn: Really?
This superheated field they've
created is unstable, you see.
It hasn't collapsed because
their energies are balanced.
As long as that's the case,
the field will continue
to grow in strength...
However, the moment one
of them tips that balance...
all of the energy
will concentrate
and flow directly
to the weaker side.
And by the weaker side...
I mean the loser, of course.
That's the most dangerous
and compelling part
of the Battle of True Dragons.
When either of them
delivers the finishing blow,
the field collapses,
and only one of these warriors
will be left
standing in its wake.
Then... the other, well,
they'll face the same
fate as the Dragon Vorikus.
Killvearn: Ooo, how scary.
Personally, I'd never
agree to a duel like that.
Yep. Scary, scary!
In this case, it's Dai
who has the disadvantage,
and it grows the
longer this goes on.
Knowing Hadlar,
his finishing attack will
be the Ultra Combustion Slash.
Killvearn: But as
for little Dai...
his greatest attack
is the Avan Strash-
especially when combined with
his Draconic Aura or
a spell of some kind...
And if the strongest
incantation he knows is Zapple,
then his Magic Sword isn't
a real threat here. Correct?
Vearn: Between Avan Strash
and Ultra Combustion Slash,
there's no question
which is stronger...
Although, that is not
the sort of thing
the Hero would overlook.
I wonder what the boy
is thinking, then?
Hadlar: The Avan Strash...
How predictable.
That attack once
cost me my life.
And now even after Avan's
demise, it goes on...
to be wielded by his
equally pathetic successor.
I must admit, Dai.
It is a rather fitting
bookend to our conflict...
[laughing]
But this time you
don't stand a chance
of winning with that attack!
And once you've been beaten,
all this chaos
surrounding us...
Oh, I get it.
Whoever loses this
round is getting hit...
With the full
force of this heat.
Then you realize
what happens next.
But I'm not gonna - no -
Avan Strash won't fail me now.
Because I've been practicing...
And I've got something that can
defeat the Dark King himself.
This is an Avan Strash
you've never seen before!
W-What?!
A new type of Strash?
It must be the attack
he came up with
while he was
training with Nova.
I was really
hoping to save this
until I faced
off with King Vearn.
But it seems like
if I lose here,
then I won't
get the chance.
So! You get to
try it first, Hadlar!
Is that so?
Well, you've
never been one to
bluff your way out
of trouble before...
Go ahead. I'm intrigued.
Show me this new
Avan Strash of yours.
But if it doesn't
live up to the hype,
then my mighty blow will
shatter it - along with you!
[struggling grunts]
[worried chirps]
Gome's right. We should
get further away.
What? Don't be ridiculous.
We can't leave Dai
at a time like this.
Then at least get down!
Here it comes...
I hope you're ready!
Hadlar [thought]: His stance
looks almost the same...
Though it's slightly
lower than usual.
Avan Strash... Arrow!
Popp [thought]: Wait.
That's his new Strash?
Hyunckel [thought]: It's
just like the normal one.
Hadlar [thought]:
Is that all?
He's made it look
like an arrow?
That fool...
It's still little
more than a breeze
compared to my
Ultra Combustion Slash...
What a disappointment!
Okay, now.
Avan... Strash... Break!
But... How?!
Popp: Are you seeing this?
He's catching up...
Maam: With the first Strash!
No, no! Why you little-
[roaring]
Avan Strash...
Cross!
[snarling]
Nova: That's Dai!
He finally let his new
super attack out of the bag.
The Battle of True Dragons...
Has decided upon a victor.
Yes, he did it! Dai
actually pulled it off.
Did you see that?
That new attack
was unbelievable.
What a champ!
Leona: Unbelievable is right.
I see why he and Nova
were so excited.
The Avan Strash
Cross... Incredible.
Impressive.
The Arrow Type
enables the user to
fire an Aura from
a distance, right?
And the Break Type
is when you
charge the enemy
at full power...
But to combine them both,
well, it's unheard of...
Combining the two, huh?
Wait, what are you
talking about, Hyunckel?
I mean when he
uses the Break Type
and catches up with
his Arrow Type,
he's able to detonate both
Strashes simultaneously,
unleashing their power
at the moment of impact.
The upward blast of
the Arrow Type
and the downward blast
of the Break Type
cross right before they
both hit the enemy's chest.
If I had to guess,
the combined force...
is five times greater
than a normal Strash.
Five times greater?!
Hyunckel: But timing both
techniques so perfectly...
it would require
tremendous skill-
along with instincts
like no other.
To predict an enemy's
movements like that,
while coordinating two
strikes is beyond even me.
Only Dai could carry
out such a super attack.
Yeah, "super attack"
sounds like his thing.
The catch is, it must have
used up all of his Aura.
[proud chuckle]
Maam: After all this time
Hadlar's finished, isn't he?
Hyunckel: That's right.
There's no way he survived.
All the energy that was
surrounding them has vanished.
And if I'm not
mistaken, then...
It must have hit him
alongside Dai's attack.
No one could withstand
a blast like that.
All right, Dai! Well done!
Oh, no. Watch out!
He's still...
[furious roaring]
[shocked gasps]
Hyunckel [thought]:
Impossible!
No!
[pained yell]
Popp: D-Dai?!
Hyunckel: This can't be...
No matter how strong
Hadlar's will is,
it shouldn't make
any difference now.
After that bout,
neither of them could have
even a shred of Aura left.
Where does he get
such strength?
Hyunckel: A... A Life Blade?!
Both: A what?!
Hyunckel:
It's one of the most
dangerous techniques of all-
he's converting his own
life-force into a sword.
Even though he knows full
well what it'll cost him!
Dai!
We've got your back!
Hadlar [thought]: So they've
defeated my Royal Guard.
I'm sure it was
a valiant fight.
Hym... Albinass... Sigma...
You all did very well.
You were mighty.
I shall thank you properly when
I join you in the afterlife.
In hindsight, the Dark Army's
Six Legion Commanders
were just as mighty...
But the reason
they weren't able to
defeat the Disciples
of Avan was me...
It's because,
as their commander,
I offered them
nothing to fight for
but greed and
self-preservation.
I see that now.
The fact that
you all came together
and risked your
lives for me...
That's all the proof
I need to know that I was
able to reach new heights...
to have even a brief
taste of greatness...
At least, at the
end of all this...
I was blessed to
have such loyal servants.
Now it's my turn.
I shall repay your loyalty...
With one last strike
to wipe out our enemy.
Popp [thought]:
This is bad...
It feels like Hadlar's will is
totally overpowering Dai's here.
Even that super attack
wasn't enough to stop him,
and now he's gonna
want payback.
I can sense that
the next strike contains
the life force of
the Royal Guard, as well.
If any of us get hit,
it's all over!
Dai, hang on. I'll-
No, don't! Just wait!
Dai: This is
between me and him.
I won't forgive anyone
who gets in the way...
Not even you, Popp.
For this battle...
For just this one battle...
I need you to let me...
fight it alone.
Do I make myself clear?
D-Don't be an idiot!
You know that you don't have
enough strength
to do this alone.
That last attack burned
out all of your Aura...
And being stubborn isn't
gonna bring it back.
But just look!
Popp: Hadlar's using
everything he's made of
to pull off
one final attack...
And trust me, it won't be
the kind you'll recover from.
It'll contain all
of his will...
The unfulfilled wishes
of the Royal Guard...
Please, a normal attack
isn't gonna be enough.
Think about this.
With all of your Aura spent,
you won't be able to use
the Strash Cross either!
That's enough, okay?
Leave the rest to us.
You've got nothing left.
But you're wrong, Popp...
I still have one attack
that I want to try.
Besides, Hadlar's
not the only one here...
who's carrying out the wishes
of his friends in this fight.
Everyone's will is within me.
Master Avan and Grampa...
and Dad, as well.
With them, I can't lose.
I'm going to prove
it wasn't a mistake
for them to believe in me...
I don't care what it takes.
And I'm willing
to pay the price.
I'll never let Hadlar beat me!
He won't win!
Popp [thought]: I really
am a coward, aren't I?
How could I not have
faith in somebody
who's got as much
heart as this guy?
I'll give you this,
I'm impressed with your spirit.
But what can you do?
Your friend wasn't wrong...
You barely have any
Aura left. It's hopeless.
I can still do this...
Zapple!
Narrator: Through
sheer force of will,
Hadlar has clawed his way back
from the brink of defeat...
And fueled by the memory
of his fallen Royal Guard,
the Dark Lord levels a final
devastating attack on our Hero.
Dai braces himself
for the finishing bout
with his nemesis...
But with his Aura depleted,
will he be able to summon
the strength to defeat Hadlar,
once and for all?
Find out next time on
Dragon Quest:
The Adventure of Dai,
"The Last Attack".